Harleen Primus was born in Port of Spain
Trinidad on November 29th 1919 while
still at a tender age she and her family
emigrated to the u.s. they settled in
Manhattan were Primus attended public
schools and earned her BA in biology and
pre-med from Hunter College in 1940 a
year later she received a scholarship to
the new dance group in which she became
their first african-american student and
where her qualities of spontaneity speed
and power were instantly recognized in
1942 she performed her own strange fruit
a work that was inspired by influential
black song writers and poets like
Langston Hughes this prompted the New
York Times dance critic John Martin to
rave that if miss Primus walked away
with the lion's share of the honors it
was partly because her material was more
theatrically effective but also because
she was a remarkably gifted artist in
1943 she regularly attended the Cafe
Society downtown a racially integrated
nightclub whose small stage she filled
with power emotion and her famous five
foot high jumps Primus also felt the
need to devote time to performing
sociological field work during the
summer of 1944 she toured the south
posing as a migrant worker in which she
states to know my own people where they
are suffering the most in April of 1948
she was awarded a $4,000 grant by the
Julius Rosenwald Foundation to travel to
Africa she spent her time visiting and
living with the natives of Nigeria Ghana
Liberia Cameroon Angola and Senegal all
while observing and recording their
traditional dances her groundbreaking
doctoral thesis a dance oriented
anthropology that was the first of its
kind drew from her notebooks and her own
choreography primus received her PhD in
anthropology from nyu in 1978 becoming
the university's first student to
fulfill a language requirement with
dance she remained active in the dance
community until succumbing to diabetes
at her new
so home on October 29th 1994 an
acknowledgement of her immense impact
and extraordinary vision Primus received
many honors including the Distinguished
Service Award on the Association of
American anthropologists and the
National Medal of Arts for more
information about pearl Primus you can
visit the links down in the description
box and if you want to see the full
video for dancing you can visit this
link right here and it'll take you right
to the source hope you enjoyed this
video and remember to always sing like
nobody's listening and to dance like
nobody's watching